there is a Great Divide in between the
rich and the poor a Chasm which gets
wider an impossible feat to have these
converge the irrational Market doesn't
react in a careful and calculated
pattern as it should it wildly reacts
causing dramatic charts which will go
down in the history books you can't here
for the truth let's look at these charts
today I'm going to show you specific
focus on the us today but of course it
applies All Around the World in one
degree or
another these are very dramatic charts
at least according to my opinion Health
Care spending has grown much faster than
the rest of the economy in recent
decades look at this this colored line
here
88% that's your National Health Care
expenditures then you look at the
GDP we're going back from
1960s it's I mean if you just look at
the ratio in between these two
here it's crazy compare that though as
bad as that is with wages which have
been pretty much bottomed out the entire
time
our wages have barely barely
increased over these several
decades think about that for a second
while everything else is getting more
expensive your wage your
income is staying relatively flat and
they do
this with
intention I have more to say about this
in a moment but I'm just want make this
point that of course you need to
have both people
working unable to stay at home one of
those individuals you know he's
struggling now to make ends meet whereas
1970 that was very
possible you didn't have to be you know
the top executive in your company to be
able to have basic things in your life
but now it seems like everyone is in the
rat race and everyone seems to be
drowning it's just the way it
is look at this federal government
consumer credit student loans
asset The New Normal your federal
government supports soaring student debt
and debt surf them so you have the like
if you just take this right here you'll
see this
line is staggering to begin with I mean
the ratio at which it increases is
dramatic but I I mean what if that's
staggering then what is
this is that the hockey stick I mean
it's
crazy the amount of that how quickly it
expanded it looks like when the Federal
Reserve introduced QE into the system
and their balance sheet went up
straight that's basically what this
looks like it of course took place over
a fewe period but still it hasn't been
that long and it's something that
eventually has to
burst consumer price index for all Urban
consumers rent of primary residents okay
so you're having they're quoting here
56% increase in urban rents from 2000 to
2015 a dramatic increase which has
occurred they're showing you you know
this short period of time but it's
something that
continues every single year give or take
you're looking at rents
increasing this is why while housing
prices are increasing while wages are
staying relatively
stagnant that eventually I mean people
are wondering I'm getting tired I can't
wait for the crisis any longer this is
getting boring
well if you look at these I mean if
people literally can't buy stuff anymore
because it's too
expensive at some point you either going
to have to have the individual being
bailed out by the government or you're
going to have riots in the
streets either one could happen it could
go either direction it could h both
could
happen the rich get richer oh how much I
love
that the rich get richer gap between the
top and the bottom wage earners
continues to widen looks very similar to
the last chart but just look at the way
that this
is
It's just to clarify the uh red or
pinkish color here 90th percentile of
earnings $2,000 a week 10th percen of
earnings
$400 per week and it's something that if
you look down the road 10 years 20 years
50 years this this will continue to get
worse and worse and worse these are very
steady charts in fact if you want to
make a prediction and put some money on
it this probably would be a good idea
look how
consistent these charts have been it's
been amazing to say the
least let's move
on 60-day delinquency balances by
state loans and leases regardless of
origination period this is talking about
cars and all I wanted to know from this
was simply that it looks like a sea of
red there is a very large
percentage of these
loans that are becoming
delinquent and that says they
simply can pay back that's what it's
speaking to
me and I'm sure you see the same
thing
now I've shown this chart
before but it's been
updated during uh the duration of the US
business cycle in months we are now
sitting at the third
most the third
longest business
cycle ever in US
history I mean you have things that go
back into the 1800s for
example look at this
1861 but we're at number three right now
prior to that you had the 60s and number
one
is uh basically the '90s
and if it continues on for approximately
two more years it will be the longest
business cycle in
history that doesn't mean that I can't
stretch out that far but in the '90s you
have to think about this coming out of
1980 where you had extremely high
interest rates and the interest rates
continued throughout the
90s continued to decline a significant
level
that Spurs that stock market boom
getting into housing getting into
everything and then of course the 60s
where stuff was actually made in the
country and people had jobs and the
economy was doing much much better than
it is
today you have more of a reason for it
to go on that long but of course it
seems
like it could could extend on forever
and ever as long as the QE
train let's let's have some fun here the
QE train is going it can push it further
and
further last but not
least this is out of deuts bank and they
predicted in I believe it was in
relation to the Federal Reserve
discussion that occurred
and they said that they are
anticipating if a recession hits in 2020
the Federal
Reserve will
have a
massive massive amount
of um purchases that they will be making
they already have it ready they know
specifically that they've done qe1 QE2
then
qe3 and then you'll have to guess what's
going to happen with
qe4 so it shouldn't surprise anybody
that should they encounter a recession I
don't necessarily think it's going to
happen in 2020 I mean it could happen at
any time it just shows that they're
ready to start pumping up the market
when they need to they actually used the
term in this article here with this
where the charts were from of $1
trillion is in preparation now the
Federal Reserve didn't say that that was
deuts bank but it shows how much they're
willing to put
down a trillion dollars is a significant
amount in today's day and age there's no
doubt about that so
I'm waiting for qe4 I don't know about
you eventually it's going to have to
happen at this time of course the stock
market is rising but what if the stock
market just declines a little bit and
more and more and more companies will
demand higher corporate profits
companies may start laying people off
and then all of a sudden the trickle
effect takes place so be aware if you
found this video informative please give
me a thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book The Money GPS even
more informative you can actually look
through the book If you go over to
Amazon they have a look inside feature
that will allow you to flip through the
pages of the book and see if you like it
take
care don't forget last one last thing I
had brought the prices of the Kindle
versions of both of my books the new
book is out as well down they're
currently selling as of this recording
on Amazon for
$758 so definitely check that out